docs/index.md, before:

The Java Web Development Course Index File

An introduction to Java Web Development with Jakarta JEE 8:

1. [Creating a basic JEE 8 Maven project structure](jee8setupmaven.md)

2. [Our Basic Jakarta JEE 8 Web Application Structure](jee8setupwebarch.md)

3. [Creating and populating our CharityDB in MariaDB](jee8mariadbCharityDBsetup.md)

4. [Creating and populating our Charity Associate Table in MariaDB](jee8mariadbAssociateDBsetup.md)

5. [Updating the JEE 8 Web Application Module with a Hello World Servlet](jee8helloworldservlet.md)

6. [Debugging the JEE 8 Web App](jee8debug.md)

7. [Using a Multiparameter Form in a JEE 8 Web App](jee8checkboxes.md)

8. [Using Init Params in the JEE 8 Web App](jee8initparams.md)

9. [Uploading files via Servlet in the JEE 8 Web App](jee8fileupload.md)

10. [Multi-threading in the Tomcat JEE 8 Web App](jee8multithreading.md)

11. [JSP is HTML in the JEE 8 Web App](jee8jspishtml.md)

12. [Expanding on our JSP knowledge in Jakarta JEE 8](jee8jspintro.md)

13. [Embedding Java into JSP with JEE 8 Web App](jee8embeddedjava.md)

14. [Combining Java (C) and JSP(V) in our JEE 8 Web App MVC ](jee8jsjavacombo.md)

15. [Using HTML and CSS with Bootstrap in our JSPs  ](jee8htmlcssbootstrap.md)

16. [Understanding Jakarta Expression Language 3.0 - Part 1](jee8expressionlanguage1.md)

17. [Using the Java Standard Tag Library 1.2 in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 1](jee8jstl12.md)

18. [A short overview of Jakarta Server Faces](jee8jsf12.md)

19. [Maintaining State using Sessions in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 1](jee8sessionspart1.md)

20. [Maintaining State using Sessions in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 2](jee8sessionspart2.md)

21. [Using the Java Standard Tag Library 1.2 in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 2](jee8jstl12b.md)

22. [Using custom Java Standard Tag Library 1.2 files in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 3](jee8jstl12c.md)

23. [Maintaining State using Sessions in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 3](jee8sessionspart3.md)

24. [Understanding Jakarta Expression Language 3.0 - Part 2](jee8expressionlanguage2.md)

25. [Understanding Jakarta Expression Language 3.0 - Part 3](jee8expressionlanguage3.md)

Commit message:

Splitting the Session Login lesson into two separate lessons

docs/index.md, after:

The Java Web Development Course Index File

An introduction to Java Web Development with Jakarta JEE 8:

1. [Creating a basic JEE 8 Maven project structure](jee8setupmaven.md)

2. [Our Basic Jakarta JEE 8 Web Application Structure](jee8setupwebarch.md)

3. [Creating and populating our CharityDB in MariaDB](jee8mariadbCharityDBsetup.md)

4. [Creating and populating our Charity Associate Table in MariaDB](jee8mariadbAssociateDBsetup.md)

5. [Updating the JEE 8 Web Application Module with a Hello World Servlet](jee8helloworldservlet.md)

6. [Debugging the JEE 8 Web App](jee8debug.md)

7. [Using a Multiparameter Form in a JEE 8 Web App](jee8checkboxes.md)

8. [Using Init Params in the JEE 8 Web App](jee8initparams.md)

9. [Uploading files via Servlet in the JEE 8 Web App](jee8fileupload.md)

10. [Multi-threading in the Tomcat JEE 8 Web App](jee8multithreading.md)

11. [JSP is HTML in the JEE 8 Web App](jee8jspishtml.md)

12. [Expanding on our JSP knowledge in Jakarta JEE 8](jee8jspintro.md)

13. [Embedding Java into JSP with JEE 8 Web App](jee8embeddedjava.md)

14. [Combining Java (C) and JSP(V) in our JEE 8 Web App MVC ](jee8jsjavacombo.md)

15. [Using HTML and CSS with Bootstrap in our JSPs  ](jee8htmlcssbootstrap.md)

16. [Understanding Jakarta Expression Language 3.0 - Part 1](jee8expressionlanguage1.md)

17. [Using the Java Standard Tag Library 1.2 in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 1](jee8jstl12.md)

18. [A short overview of Jakarta Server Faces](jee8jsf12.md)

19. [Maintaining State using Sessions in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 1](jee8sessionspart1.md)

20. [Maintaining State using Sessions in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 2](jee8sessionspart2.md)

21. [Using the Java Standard Tag Library 1.2 in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 2](jee8jstl12b.md)

22. [Using custom Java Standard Tag Library 1.2 files in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 3](jee8jstl12c.md)

23. [Using custom JSTL 1.2 files for enabling login to our JEE 8 Web Applications](jee8JSTLLogin.md)

23. [Maintaining State using Sessions in our JEE 8 Web Applications - Part 3](jee8sessionspart3.md)


24. [Understanding Jakarta Expression Language 3.0 - Part 2](jee8expressionlanguage2.md)

25. [Understanding Jakarta Expression Language 3.0 - Part 3](jee8expressionlanguage3.md)
