docs/jee8sessionspart3.md, before:

### Maintaining State Using Sessions in our Charity Registration JEE 8 Web App Module

Use these (but for JEE8) to update these code examples:

[Jakarta Servlet Specification - Sessions](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/5.0/jakarta-servlet-spec-5.0.html#sessions)


##### 1. Applying Sessions in our charity-registration module
We add the <session-config> entry to our web.xml and and an in memory database to store Users and a login page and servlet

###### We add a login to the charity-registration app:
We remove session=false in all the JSP's and add the <session-config> to our web.xml in order to use cookies 

###### Our login servlet

	@WebServlet(
        name = "loginServlet",
        urlPatterns = "/login"
	)
	public class LoginServlet extends HttpServlet
	{
	    private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;
		
		private static final Map<String, String> userDatabase = new Hashtable<>();
	
		//Simple in memory DB to store users and passwords - no encryption
	    static {
	        userDatabase.put("Nicolaas", "password");
	        userDatabase.put("Sarah", "drowssap");
	        userDatabase.put("Mike", "wordpass");
	        userDatabase.put("John", "green");
	    }
	
	    //Here we re-direct to the login.jsp page
	    @Override
	    protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
	            throws ServletException, IOException
	    {
	        HttpSession session = request.getSession();
	        
	      //Check if the User is already logged in
	        if(request.getParameter("logout") != null)
	        {
	        	//Send to login page if not
	            session.invalidate();
	            response.sendRedirect("login");
	            return;
	        }
	        else if(session.getAttribute("username") != null) 
	        {
	        	//Send to application if logged in
	        	session.setAttribute("username", session.getAttribute("username").toString());
	            response.sendRedirect("registrations");
	            return;
	        }
	
	        request.setAttribute("loginFailed", false);
	        
	        //Redirect to the login page
	        request.getRequestDispatcher("/WEB-INF/jsp/view/login.jsp")
	               .forward(request, response);
	    }
	
	    //The login.jsp for POSTs to this method
	    @Override
	    protected void doPost(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
	            throws ServletException, IOException
	    {
	    	
	        HttpSession session = request.getSession();
	        if(session.getAttribute("username") != null) //User is alread logged in and in session
	        {
	            response.sendRedirect("registrations");
	            return;
	        }
	
	        String username = request.getParameter("username");
	        String password = request.getParameter("password");
	        
	        //Forward to application if the login is successful
	        if(username == null || password == null ||
	                !LoginServlet.userDatabase.containsKey(username) ||
	                !password.equals(LoginServlet.userDatabase.get(username)))
	        {
	            
	        	request.setAttribute("loginFailed", true); //Use this attribute to indicate login failure
	            
	            request.getRequestDispatcher("/WEB-INF/jsp/view/login.jsp")
	                   .forward(request, response);
	        }
	        else
	        {
	            request.changeSessionId();
	            session.setAttribute("username", username);
	            response.sendRedirect("registrations");
	        }
	    }
	}
	
###### Our login JSP

		<!DOCTYPE html>
		<html>
		    <head>
		        <title>Charity Associate Support</title>
		    </head>
		    <body>
		        <h2>Login</h2>
		        You must log in to access the charity registration site.<br /><br />
		        <!-- On login failed returned from the login Servlet -->
		        <%
		            
		            if(((Boolean)request.getAttribute("loginFailed")))
		            {
		                %>
		        <b>The user name or password you entered are not correct. Please try
		            again.</b><br /><br />
		                <%
		            }
		        %>
		        <form method="POST" action="<c:url value="/login" />">
		            User name<br />
		            <input type="text" name="username" /><br /><br />
		            Password<br />
		            <input type="password" name="password" /><br /><br />
		            <input type="submit" value="Log In" />
		        </form>
		    </body>
		</html>
		
We can now use the user name to populate our Registration object from the session after the User has logged in

##### 2. Compiling, testing and debugging our session-registration web application

Use incorrect user name and password
Use valid user name and password
Add some Registrations and look at them
Close the browser and re-open and re-visit Registration creation 

##### 3. Add a logout link

Add code to the LoginServlet doGet() method

		 //Check if the User is already logged in
        if(request.getParameter("logout") != null)
        {
        	//Send to login page if not
            session.invalidate();
            response.sendRedirect("login");
            return;
        }
        else if(session.getAttribute("username") != null) 
        {
        	//Send to application if logged in
        	session.setAttribute("username", session.getAttribute("username").toString());
            response.sendRedirect("registrations");
            return;
        }
Add a logout link at the top of the JSPs

		<a href="<c:url value="/login?logout" />">Logout</a>

###### Repeat the testing and debugging steps as above

##### 4. Detecting Changes to Sessions Using Listeners

There are several listeners defined in the Servlet API which listens to some form of session activity, you subscribe events by implementing a listener interface by adding a Listener configuration to your app. You can do this programmatically of through annotations and the web.xml configuration file

When something happens that triggers the publication of an Event to which your code is subscribed, the JEE container invokes the corresponding method.

Examples of the Listener Interfaces are :

[httpsessionattributelistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionattributelistener)

[httpsessionbindinglistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionbindinglistener)

[httpsessionidlistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionidlistener)

[httpsessionlistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionlistener)

We implement the last two in the SessionListener.java class

		@WebListener
		public class SessionListener implements HttpSessionListener, HttpSessionIdListener
		{
		
		 	private SimpleDateFormat formatter =
            new SimpleDateFormat("EEE, d MMM yyyy HH:mm:ss");

		    @Override
		    public void sessionCreated(HttpSessionEvent e)
		    {
		        System.out.println(this.date() + ": Session " + e.getSession().getId() +
		                " created.");
		        SessionRegistry.addSession(e.getSession());
		    }
		
		    @Override
		    public void sessionDestroyed(HttpSessionEvent e)
		    {
		        System.out.println(this.date() + ": Session " + e.getSession().getId() +
		                " destroyed.");
		        SessionRegistry.removeSession(e.getSession());
		    }
		
		    @Override
		    public void sessionIdChanged(HttpSessionEvent e, String oldSessionId)
		    {
		        System.out.println(this.date() + ": Session ID " + oldSessionId +
		                " changed to " + e.getSession().getId());
		        SessionRegistry.updateSessionId(e.getSession(), oldSessionId);
		    }
		
		    private String date()
		    {
		        return this.formatter.format(new Date());
		    }

		}
		
We will now run and debug our web application and look at the Console output of the System.out.println()
methods in the class above.

##### 5. Maintaining a List of Active Sessions

We use our own implementation of the  

[httpsessionlistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionlistener) and [httpsessionidlistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionidlistener) classes, in order to implement a Listener Interface class: 
[SessionListener.java](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/java/com/nicordesigns/SessionListener.java)

To keep an in memory database in our Charity Registration Application:

We create the following class:
[InMemorySessionDB.java](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/java/com/nicordesigns/InMemorySessionDB.java)
This class stores all the Heap References to all the created Session Objects


In our SessionListener Class we add, remove and update the Session References to the In Memory Database when the Sessions are created, destroyed or updated.
[SessionListener.java](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/java/com/nicordesigns/SessionListener.java)

We create a Servlet to display the list of Sessions:

[SessionListServlet.java](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/java/com/nicordesigns/SessionListServlet.java)

and a sessions.jsp to display these Sessions.

[sessions.jsp](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/jsp/view/sessions.jsp)

Check in the end Git branch of this slide show 

##### [More Maintaining State Using Sessions Finish Branch](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/tree/jee8web-more-session-management-finish)

Commit message:

Working on TAG layout pages

docs/jee8sessionspart3.md, after:

### Maintaining State Using Sessions in our Charity Registration JEE 8 Web App Module

Use these (but for JEE8) to update these code examples:

[Jakarta Servlet Specification - Sessions](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/5.0/jakarta-servlet-spec-5.0.html#sessions)


## 5. Building Custom Tag Files

We'll now create custom tag files that form the structure of our JSP pages:

1. Design the `main.tag` file, including sections for `headContent` and `navigationContent`.
2. Create `loggedout.tag` and `basic.tag` files, building upon the base structure and utilizing CSS files.

## 6. Adapting the Java Code

Update the Java code to integrate custom tags and improve the overall application:

1. Expand the `Registration` class and `RegistrationServlet` with the updated tag functionality.


##### 1. Applying Sessions in our charity-registration module
We add the <session-config> entry to our web.xml and and an in memory database to store Users and a login page and servlet

###### We add a login to the charity-registration app:
We remove session=false in all the JSP's and add the <session-config> to our web.xml in order to use cookies 

###### Our login servlet

	@WebServlet(
        name = "loginServlet",
        urlPatterns = "/login"
	)
	public class LoginServlet extends HttpServlet
	{
	    private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;
		
		private static final Map<String, String> userDatabase = new Hashtable<>();
	
		//Simple in memory DB to store users and passwords - no encryption
	    static {
	        userDatabase.put("Nicolaas", "password");
	        userDatabase.put("Sarah", "drowssap");
	        userDatabase.put("Mike", "wordpass");
	        userDatabase.put("John", "green");
	    }
	
	    //Here we re-direct to the login.jsp page
	    @Override
	    protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
	            throws ServletException, IOException
	    {
	        HttpSession session = request.getSession();
	        
	      //Check if the User is already logged in
	        if(request.getParameter("logout") != null)
	        {
	        	//Send to login page if not
	            session.invalidate();
	            response.sendRedirect("login");
	            return;
	        }
	        else if(session.getAttribute("username") != null) 
	        {
	        	//Send to application if logged in
	        	session.setAttribute("username", session.getAttribute("username").toString());
	            response.sendRedirect("registrations");
	            return;
	        }
	
	        request.setAttribute("loginFailed", false);
	        
	        //Redirect to the login page
	        request.getRequestDispatcher("/WEB-INF/jsp/view/login.jsp")
	               .forward(request, response);
	    }
	
	    //The login.jsp for POSTs to this method
	    @Override
	    protected void doPost(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
	            throws ServletException, IOException
	    {
	    	
	        HttpSession session = request.getSession();
	        if(session.getAttribute("username") != null) //User is alread logged in and in session
	        {
	            response.sendRedirect("registrations");
	            return;
	        }
	
	        String username = request.getParameter("username");
	        String password = request.getParameter("password");
	        
	        //Forward to application if the login is successful
	        if(username == null || password == null ||
	                !LoginServlet.userDatabase.containsKey(username) ||
	                !password.equals(LoginServlet.userDatabase.get(username)))
	        {
	            
	        	request.setAttribute("loginFailed", true); //Use this attribute to indicate login failure
	            
	            request.getRequestDispatcher("/WEB-INF/jsp/view/login.jsp")
	                   .forward(request, response);
	        }
	        else
	        {
	            request.changeSessionId();
	            session.setAttribute("username", username);
	            response.sendRedirect("registrations");
	        }
	    }
	}
	
###### Our login JSP

		<!DOCTYPE html>
		<html>
		    <head>
		        <title>Charity Associate Support</title>
		    </head>
		    <body>
		        <h2>Login</h2>
		        You must log in to access the charity registration site.<br /><br />
		        <!-- On login failed returned from the login Servlet -->
		        <%
		            
		            if(((Boolean)request.getAttribute("loginFailed")))
		            {
		                %>
		        <b>The user name or password you entered are not correct. Please try
		            again.</b><br /><br />
		                <%
		            }
		        %>
		        <form method="POST" action="<c:url value="/login" />">
		            User name<br />
		            <input type="text" name="username" /><br /><br />
		            Password<br />
		            <input type="password" name="password" /><br /><br />
		            <input type="submit" value="Log In" />
		        </form>
		    </body>
		</html>
		
We can now use the user name to populate our Registration object from the session after the User has logged in


## Testing and Deployment

1. Test your web application by accessing: `http://localhost:8080/charity-registration/login`
2. Register a couple of charities to ensure everything functions as expected.

##### 2. Compiling, testing and debugging our session-registration web application

Use incorrect user name and password
Use valid user name and password
Add some Registrations and look at them
Close the browser and re-open and re-visit Registration creation 

##### 3. Add a logout link

Add code to the LoginServlet doGet() method

		 //Check if the User is already logged in
        if(request.getParameter("logout") != null)
        {
        	//Send to login page if not
            session.invalidate();
            response.sendRedirect("login");
            return;
        }
        else if(session.getAttribute("username") != null) 
        {
        	//Send to application if logged in
        	session.setAttribute("username", session.getAttribute("username").toString());
            response.sendRedirect("registrations");
            return;
        }
Add a logout link at the top of the JSPs

		<a href="<c:url value="/login?logout" />">Logout</a>

###### Repeat the testing and debugging steps as above

##### 4. Detecting Changes to Sessions Using Listeners

There are several listeners defined in the Servlet API which listens to some form of session activity, you subscribe events by implementing a listener interface by adding a Listener configuration to your app. You can do this programmatically of through annotations and the web.xml configuration file

When something happens that triggers the publication of an Event to which your code is subscribed, the JEE container invokes the corresponding method.

Examples of the Listener Interfaces are :

[httpsessionattributelistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionattributelistener)

[httpsessionbindinglistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionbindinglistener)

[httpsessionidlistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionidlistener)

[httpsessionlistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionlistener)

We implement the last two in the SessionListener.java class

		@WebListener
		public class SessionListener implements HttpSessionListener, HttpSessionIdListener
		{
		
		 	private SimpleDateFormat formatter =
            new SimpleDateFormat("EEE, d MMM yyyy HH:mm:ss");

		    @Override
		    public void sessionCreated(HttpSessionEvent e)
		    {
		        System.out.println(this.date() + ": Session " + e.getSession().getId() +
		                " created.");
		        SessionRegistry.addSession(e.getSession());
		    }
		
		    @Override
		    public void sessionDestroyed(HttpSessionEvent e)
		    {
		        System.out.println(this.date() + ": Session " + e.getSession().getId() +
		                " destroyed.");
		        SessionRegistry.removeSession(e.getSession());
		    }
		
		    @Override
		    public void sessionIdChanged(HttpSessionEvent e, String oldSessionId)
		    {
		        System.out.println(this.date() + ": Session ID " + oldSessionId +
		                " changed to " + e.getSession().getId());
		        SessionRegistry.updateSessionId(e.getSession(), oldSessionId);
		    }
		
		    private String date()
		    {
		        return this.formatter.format(new Date());
		    }

		}
		
We will now run and debug our web application and look at the Console output of the System.out.println()
methods in the class above.

##### 5. Maintaining a List of Active Sessions

We use our own implementation of the  

[httpsessionlistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionlistener) and [httpsessionidlistener](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/4.0/apidocs/javax/servlet/http/httpsessionidlistener) classes, in order to implement a Listener Interface class: 
[SessionListener.java](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/java/com/nicordesigns/SessionListener.java)

To keep an in memory database in our Charity Registration Application:

We create the following class:
[InMemorySessionDB.java](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/java/com/nicordesigns/InMemorySessionDB.java)
This class stores all the Heap References to all the created Session Objects


In our SessionListener Class we add, remove and update the Session References to the In Memory Database when the Sessions are created, destroyed or updated.
[SessionListener.java](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/java/com/nicordesigns/SessionListener.java)

We create a Servlet to display the list of Sessions:

[SessionListServlet.java](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/java/com/nicordesigns/SessionListServlet.java)

and a sessions.jsp to display these Sessions.

[sessions.jsp](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/blob/jee8web-more-session-management-finish/charity-registration/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/jsp/view/sessions.jsp)

Check in the end Git branch of this slide show 

##### [More Maintaining State Using Sessions Finish Branch](https://github.com/NicorDesigns/javawebdevcourse/tree/jee8web-more-session-management-finish)
